1. ⌨️ The Essentials:

Shortcut,Action
Space,Your Leader Key (The prefix for most custom commands).
:w,Save the current file.
:q,Quit Neovim.
Ctrl + w then q,Close the current split window (useful for closing the terminal).
u: Undo.
Ctrl + r: Redo.
End: Shift + $.
Start: Shift + 0.
First Text: Shift + ^.
gg: Jump to the top of the file.
G: Jump to the bottom of the file. (Shift + g or Cap G)


2. 📂 Navigation & File Management
Shortcut,Action
Ctrl + n,Toggle Sidebar: Opens/closes the file explorer (NvimTree).
Space + ff,Find Files: Search for a file by name.
Space + fg,Find Grep: Search for specific words inside all files.
Space + fb,Find Buffers: List and switch between all open files.
Tab,Next File: Move to the next open buffer (if you added the Tab mapping).
Shift + Tab,Prev File: Move to the previous open buffer

3. 🚀 Running Your Code (The "Output" Features)

These shortcuts are your "Play" buttons. They handle the boring stuff (saving and typing terminal commands) for you.

    F5 (Python): Automatically types :w (Save), splits your screen, and runs python3 hello.py.

    F6 (JavaScript): Automatically types :w (Save), splits your screen, and runs node hello.js.

The Workflow:

    Write code.

    Press F5 or F6.

    See results instantly.

    Press Ctrl + w then q to close the result window.

4. 🛠️ How to Add Your Own Shortcuts

Think of the line vim.keymap.set("n", "...", "...", ...) like a recipe:

    vim.keymap.set("n", "Shortcut", "Action", { Options })

    "n" (Normal Mode): This shortcut only works when you are not typing code (after you hit Esc). This prevents you from accidentally triggering commands while writing.

    "Shortcut": The keys you want to press (e.g., "<leader>w").

    "Action": Exactly what you would type into the Neovim command bar.

    "<CR>": This is the most important part! It stands for "Carriage Return" (the Enter key). Without this, Neovim will type the command but wait for you to hit Enter manually.


🏷️ The "Rename" Cheat Sheet
1. Renaming Code (The Smart Way)

Use this when you want to change a variable or function name everywhere it appears in your file without breaking anything.
Shortcut	Action	When to use it
Space + r + n	LSP Rename	When your cursor is on a variable like x and you want to change it to total_sum.
Space + c + a	Code Actions	When there is an error; sometimes the LSP suggests a "quick rename" or fix.
2. Renaming Files (The Sidebar Way)

Use this to change the actual name of the file on your hard drive (e.g., from hello.py to main.py).
Shortcut	Action	Steps
Ctrl + n	Open Sidebar	Opens the NvimTree file explorer on the left.
r	Rename File	Hover over the file in the sidebar and press r to type a new name.
a	Add File	Hover over a folder in the sidebar and press a to create a new file.
d	Delete File	Hover over a file in the sidebar and press d to remove it.

In Neovim, "Copy" is called Yank (represented by y) and "Paste" is called Put (represented by p).

Here is how you handle lines and entire files while in Normal Mode:
✂️ Copying and Cutting Lines
Action	Shortcut	Why this way?
Copy (Yank) 1 line	yy	Copies the entire line your cursor is on.
Cut (Delete) 1 line	dd	Deletes the line and saves it to your clipboard (to be pasted later).
Paste	p	Pastes the copied/cut text after the cursor.
Paste (Above)	P (Shift+p)	Pastes the text before the cursor.

    Pro Tip: To copy 3 lines, just type 3yy.

📄 Copying and Cutting the Entire File

To do this, we combine "Movement" commands with "Action" commands.

To Copy Everything:

    Type ggyG

        gg (go to start)

        y (yank/copy)

        G (until the end)

To Cut (Delete) Everything:

    Type ggdG

        gg (go to start)

        d (delete)

        G (until the end)
